---
title: "You are bad performance's main reason"
slug: 'web-performance'
description: 'Take this small but impactful step today and give your Storybook application that extra touch of visual appeal and professionalism!'
pubDate: 'Feb 21 2023'
heroImage: '/blog/storybook-favicon/cover.jpg'
tags: ['storybook']
---

I was arguing lately on LinkedIn about the performance used as a criteria to choose a framework.

One of the arguments delivered to convince me to choose some framework was based on benchmarks from an article.
Based on the same website concept, the article was comparing the performance of different frameworks with lighthouse scores.

It allowed to pinpoint these differences.


By using these information, we might state than using a framework with a better score will lead to a better performance.
But what about the missing xx% to hit 100%?

All other Lighthouse metrics are fine except one: the LCP (Largest Contentful Paint).
The tested application is loading a large image, lowering the LCP score.

> The LCP is a metric that measures the time it takes for the largest content element in the viewport to become visible.
It's a good metric to measure the perceived loading performance of your application.

And it impacts the Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS) score too.

> The CLS is a metric that measures the amount of unexpected layout shift of visible page content.





Mind LightHouse give you hints to improve the performance of your application, it's not a benchmark tool.
It's helpful and providing quality feedback but it should not be used as a lone tool to monitor the performance of your application. 


It would be easy to claim that's a shared issue, but it's not.
You won't deploy this application, you'll deploy yours and the way you will care about the performance will no longer be related on the content of the benchmark but on the solutions you used to maintain a good performance in your application.


Spoiler alert: most of the performance issues won't come from choosing the right framework.
Not only choosing it and using it are two different things, but a lot of your performance issues won't come from using a framework API and building an application consumed by a user.


